## Dynamic MCNN Implementation

This public repository contains codes for developing optimal hybrid series or parallel ECNN models for dynamic optimization of chemical systems under noisy transient data. 

* Among all possible combinations of developing hybrid series (NLS - NLD / NLD - NLS) / parallel ECNN models proposed using both time-invariant and time-varying biases / noises
based on the availability / unavailability of system holdup measurements, only a couple of MATLAB codes have been uploaded -- one showing the formulation for hybrid parallel ECNN
(where the data is partitioned into steady-state and dynamic zones) and the other showing the formulation for hybrid series (NLS - NLD) ECNN.

* Though both the approaches consider the presence of a time-invariant bias with Gaussian noise in this case, the corresponding versions for handling a time-varying bias can easily
be generated by incorporating an additional constraint for the parametric noise model analogous to the corresponding steady-state ECNN formulation with respect to a random bias.

* Furthermore, both files (codes) uploaded here assume that system holdup measurements (information) are not available. So the energy conservation constraints have only been applied at
steady-states in the fully data-driven approach. 

* The unconstrained model here is taken as the neural network model having the same architecture as the constrained model. However, the unconstrained model can be represented by any other 
candidate architectures available in various commercial Deep Learning packages.

* Subsequent versions of this repository will include other combinations for ECNN implementation in dynamic modeling / optimization, as well as creating equivalent python notebooks for dynamic
ECNN applications that can be readily used by other users.

For more details about the respective algorithms, please refer to the following publication:

**Mukherjee, A.** & Bhattacharyya, D. "*On the Development of Steady-State and Dynamic Mass-Constrained Neural Networks Using Noisy Transient Data*". Comput. Chem. Eng. 108722 (2024).

Avaiable online at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compchemeng.2024.108722

